5 Experiments

We assess the performance of LLaVA in instruction-following and visual reasoning capabilities with two primary experimental settings: multimodal chatbot and the ScienceQA dataset, respectively. We train all models with 8× A100s, following Vicuna’s hyperparameters [9]. We pre-train our model on the filtered CC-595K subset for 1 epoch with a learning rate of 2e-3 and a batch size of 128, and fine-tune on the proposed LLaVA-Instruct-158K dataset for 3 epochs, with a learning rate of 2e-5 and a batch size of 32. See Appendix for more training details.

5.1 Multimodal Chatbot

We developed a chatbot demo to show the image understanding and conversation abilities of LLaVA, and to study how well LLaVA is able to digest visual inputs and exhibit instruction-following capabilities. We first use the examples in the original GPT-4 paper [36], shown in Table 3 (more examples in Appendix), that require in-depth image understanding. For comparisons, we quote the prompt and response of the multimodal GPT-4 from their paper, and query BLIP-2 and OpenFlamingo model checkpoints to get their response.

5

Visual input example, Extreme Ironing:

Source: https://www.barnorama.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/03-Confusing-Pictures.jpg

User

What is unusual about this image?

LLaVA The unusual aspect of this image is a man ironing clothes on the back of a minivan or van. This is not a typical place to perform this activity, as one would usually iron clothes in a more stationary and safe location, such as a home, using a regular ironing board. The scene depicted in the image is peculiar as it involves a makeshift ironing setup on a vehicle, which can be both unsafe and unconventional. Additionally, it is not clear how the man is able to maintain balance and stability while ironing clothes in such an unstable environment.

[Start a new conversation, and clear the history]

User What’s happening in the scene?

LLaVA The image depicts a man standing on top of a yellow SUV in a busy city street. He is holding a portable ladder, seemingly ironing clothes while standing on the vehicle. Around the scene, there are other cars, a traffic light, and a fire hydrant. Additionally, there are two other people in the vicinity, one close to the man on the car and another further away. The man on the ladder appears to be attracting attention due to his unconventional choice of ironing his clothes on top of a moving car. The city street around him is bustling with activity, adding to the unique nature of the scene.

User What is unusual about this image?

GPT-4 [36] The unusual thing about this image is that a man is ironing clothes on an ironing board attached to the roof of a moving taxi.