Response type 3: complex reasoning

Question: What challenges do these people face?

Answer: In the image, a group of people is standing outside a black SUV in a parking area, surrounded by various pieces of luggage, including suitcases and backpacks. They are facing the challenge of fitting all their luggage into the black SUV. There are multiple suitcases and backpacks to be packed, which suggests that the group has a significant amount of belongings ...<omitted>

Table 1: One example to illustrate the instruction-following data. The top block shows the contexts such as captions and boxes used to prompt GPT, and the bottom block shows the three types of responses. Note that the visual image is not used to prompt GPT, we only show it here as a reference.

following data, the available amount is limited, partially because the process for creating such data is time-consuming and less well-defined when human crowd-scouring is considered. Inspired by the success of recent GPT models in text-annotation tasks [17], we propose to leverage ChatGPT/GPT-4 for multimodal instruction-following data collection, based on the widely existing image-pair data.

For an image Xv and its associated caption Xc, it is natural to create a set of questions Xq with the intent to instruct the assistant to describe the image content. We prompt GPT-4 to curate such a list of questions (see details in Appendix). Therefore, a simple way to expand an image-text pair to its instruction-following version is Human : Xq Xv<STOP> Assistant : Xc<STOP>. Though cheap to construct, this simple expanded version lacks diversity and in-depth reasoning in both the instructions and responses.

To mitigate this issue, we leverage language-only GPT-4 or ChatGPT as the strong teacher (both accept only text as input), to create instruction-following data involving visual content. Specifically, in order to encode an image into its visual features to prompt a text-only GPT, we use two types of symbolic representations: (i) Captions typically describe the visual scene from various perspectives; (ii) Bounding boxes usually localize the objects in the scene, and each box encodes the object concept and its spatial location. One example is shown in the top block of Table 14.

This symbolic representation allows us to encode the image as an LLM-recognizable sequence. We use COCO images [31] and generate three types of instruction-following data. One example per type is shown in the bottom block of Table 14. For each type, we first manually design a few examples. They are the only human annotations we have during data collection, and are used as seed examples in in-context-learning to query GPT-4.

• Conversation. We design a conversation between the assistant and a person asking questions about this photo. The answers are in a tone as if the assistant is seeing the image and answering the question. A diverse set of questions are asked about the visual content of the image, including the object types, counting the objects, object actions, object locations, relative positions between objects. Only questions that have definite answers are considered. Please see Appendix for the detailed prompt.

• Detailed description. To include a rich and comprehensive description for an image, we create a list of questions with such an intent. We prompt GPT-4 then curate the list (see detailed prompts

3

and curation process in Appendix). For each image, we randomly sample one question from the list to ask GPT-4 to generate the detailed description.

• Complex reasoning. The above two types focus on the visual content itself, based on which we further create in-depth reasoning questions. The answers typically require a step-by-step reasoning process by following rigorous logic.